Christiana Wang: hi everyone, my name is Christina way and i'm an undergraduate researcher and Dr Nicole crowns live in the biology department.
Christiana Wang: And my research focuses on studying the molecule regulation mechanisms in sexual reproduction using your software and analog aster as our model organism.
Christiana Wang: and, more specifically i'm focusing on the processor rents country to genetic diversity, as well as Popper chromosomes elevation during biases.
Christiana Wang: And just start us off with a little bit back on information basically all sexually reproducing organisms go through my audit cell division wear a diaper a cell would give rise to for halfway cells.
Christiana Wang: Each carry you need to know that information through genetics changed every combination.
Christiana Wang: And cells have to sort new chromosomes to know which chromosome should be separated from the other and that poses unique challenges during my audit profits, one where all that happens.
Christiana Wang: And the way that this works is that homologous chromosomes search for each other in the nucleus and line up to exchange genetic material through the formation of these crossover combination products.
Christiana Wang: And, and then recombination event that results in a possible formation cause models are formed between non sister commentates of homologous chromosomes, which is essential for proper association.
Christiana Wang: Of the homologous crumbles it is that physical Perry and exchange process that allows the homeless chromosomes to separate separate segregate properly.
Christiana Wang: On the metaphysics spindles and which is all natural separation process happens again of these one.
Christiana Wang: And as you would imagine failure recombination will result in no cost model formation and a higher rate from non disjunction were homologous chromosomes cannot separate properly during meiosis one.
Christiana Wang: And there's non disjunction is to cause of various germline genetic disease, as well as infertility.
Christiana Wang: So an interesting observation people had for almost a century of your software research is named the Inter chromosomal effect.
Christiana Wang: And it is characterized by heterozygous and versions surprising crossing over between the effective chromosomes while increasing crossing overs and between your mobile phones or pairs.
Christiana Wang: And as you can see in this image, right here on, given that these two sets of homologous chromosomes are coming from the same organism.
Christiana Wang: And the first set right here is an inversion metals like gold, where one chromosome is normally the other one contains a larger version.
Christiana Wang: And this immersion would prevent in the proper pairing, given that the genes are kind of the reverse process in reverse order and, as you can see here.
Christiana Wang: What would happen in the normal chromosome is you would see an increase of crossovers normally it's one pair one per homologous comes on pair.
Christiana Wang: And in this case i've described it as two and potentially more so, basically, this is an observation, but people don't really understand what's the mechanisms behind it, and this is basically the question i'm asking.
Christiana Wang: And this studies i'm working to distinguish the cause of the entire chromosomal defect in between two hypothesis.
Christiana Wang: The first one being happening activation and the second one being crossover control mechanisms which i'll describe in more detail in the next slide So the first hypothesis is that the activation of pocketing checkpoint would.
Christiana Wang: attribute to the increase of crossovers between normal plums and pears.
Christiana Wang: and suggest that the chromosome access defects present in the aversion heterozygous so would trigger the patenting checkpoint lead into a prolonged profile.
Christiana Wang: And since inversion heterozygous cannot find homology between the pair the prolonged period was simply give normal comes on pairs more time to generate more double trainer breaks.
Christiana Wang: And therefore, leading to more crossovers on normal compares the other hypothesis, will be the activation of the crossover assurance checkpoint.
Christiana Wang: which is responsible for ensuring obligated crossover formation and that are required for proper home long segregation.
Christiana Wang: And, given that emergent hetero cycles cannot one crossovers the activity across over assurance checkpoint would induce more crossovers to form between normal crumbs appears.
Christiana Wang: And here I present the techniques that we use to study, whether or not the inversion whether or not the intercom as a matter of fact, is caused by packet a checkpoint.
Christiana Wang: And what we did is we utilize a protein called maelstrom which is capable of controlling we're extending pocketing.
Christiana Wang: The packaging these independently of promos on dynamics, meaning that by activating email should be in we can extend packaging without introducing inversions and the chromosomes.
Christiana Wang: And hearing Figure three it is basically the workflow that we followed to produce to transgender were later injected into yellow white background flies so we were gifted.
Christiana Wang: And these maelstrom genes from Osaka you know, researchers and your sponsor called university and we transform them.
Christiana Wang: into a germline expression vector and we have characterized them to make sure that it is what it is what.
Christiana Wang: We thought they are, and there were later prepared and injected into your life, our flights, so the trash genetic flies once they came back.
Christiana Wang: went through a set of recombination causes that ensured the maelstrom chance gene is the only copy of maelstrom that's present.
Christiana Wang: And we hypothesize that by turning on the mel's bomb the pocketing checkpoint using maelstrom we should be able to recapitulate the characteristics of crossover distributions as seen under the intercontinental effect.
Christiana Wang: So we have currently obtained allies or control data which is coming from the Cross right here, which is a yellow white cross without.
Christiana Wang: The maelstrom mutant and we're in the process of collecting the return process of the data.
Christiana Wang: So here i'm showing you the data that we obtained for crossover interference and distribution of our control data.
Christiana Wang: And we also compared it to the data of just just the last show so JESSICA last keys 2018 paper that included a crossover distribution.
Christiana Wang: For the next person of our stock and just a reminder that our control is the yellow whiteness in a bar and their paper us into some of our stuff.
Christiana Wang: And although the crossover distribution in there talk to, as you can see, in an interval for are significantly different between the two sets we reason that the difference could have been.
Christiana Wang: caused by some subjective measurements of the you know paces it scored by humans.
Christiana Wang: and, especially, of how it out and don't pee which, right here, in addition to that you see a large discrepancy between the two sets of data.
Christiana Wang: And additionally variation in the genetic content between the two stocks can potentially contribute to the variation and crossover frequencies.
Christiana Wang: So the control data from are going to sit of our stock will set the baseline for comparison of our male strip mutants now will have an extended pro face, while our control will not.
Christiana Wang: by comparing to cross over distribution and interference and melcher newton's we can infer on whether or not the path of the extension is indeed the direct cause of the Inter chromosome all of that.
Christiana Wang: So for distinguishing packaging checkpoint from crossover assurance checkpoint will utilize delta 49 newton's to have a single version on chromosome X.
Christiana Wang: If a crossover shows checkpoint is triggered by the absence of a crossover on demand version, then we suppose that the new chromosomal effect should be alleviated when there is a crossover on the single version.
Christiana Wang: So what we did is we measure crossover frequencies on chromosome to in the presence and absence of a crossover on the inversion delta 49 as well as well type chromosomes using whole genome sequencing.
Christiana Wang: And when looking at the total number of crossovers on chromosome to right here, and the presence.
Christiana Wang: When there is a war is not a crossover on the delta 49 chromosome X and comparing the number to the wall type.
Christiana Wang: The P value indicates that there's really no change occurred in a distribution of crossovers and trauma some to do to not having a crossover as a result of the inversion of X.
Christiana Wang: And furthermore, the number of single double and triple crossovers or not, so you know totally different between the wild type and adult or 49 stocks.
Christiana Wang: Under the two conditions as indicated here in figure six.
Christiana Wang: So the results basically suggest that the crossover crossovers on a heterozygous version chromosome does not alleviate enter chromosomal effect.
Christiana Wang: Meaning that they enter chromosomal defect is not directly mediated but in crossover assurance checkpoint therefore now leaves us to come from the packaging checkpoint activation hypothesis by finishing up Nelson meetings crossover data.
Christiana Wang: So that's all for the presentation my research and thank you for interest and I look forward.
Christiana Wang: To talking to you, maybe perhaps during my live session on may six for the intersections presentation.